---
layout: blog
title: Between
permalink: 1999/10/between
postday: 10/11 1999
posttime: 16_01
categories: [Poetry]
---

Love is a sad word sometimes
With memories attached
Like stars in the sky. Yours
Is a galaxy, behind the curtain
Of everyday thoughts. Deep
Affectionate scars on the cheek
Of a universe. I have never
Lost hope this way, this world
Has never been so removed. I am losing
The fight that was to be my last.
And you, still perfect
The way the past can be perfect
Unspoiled the way beauty
Remains. There are no happy
Secrets with me now. My exit
Was no secret, my loss is nothing
Of a secret. I am learning of myself
humanity, destiny
But not of love. Time's fingers
Have pushed me away from
What I remember and there is but
Madness. But I am halfway to nowhere
And despite your enchanting presence
There is no path from here to reach you.

Let no one say that I fell into this grave
Let them see that I dug it first.

 So between the days I reach to you,
Your eyes are still with me. And behind
The hours of work that we share, empty
Responsible and serious
I know that I would bring pleasure to you
For lunch. In a letter
Or with powerful thoughts. But there are
Long highways sprawling between us,
And my body is stuck
Between the beach and the mountains
Between strength and forgiveness
Between love and true love.
At a time where life is mostly
Time-lined stressed and blind
sweet bitter broken
and fixed, I lose vision
and sometimes hope. That maybe
better is tomorrow, and again
unbroken are you as 
I wish. May the autumn moon
Shine on better days to come,
Your foolish once lover
Is not yet home
