---
layout: blog
title: I am awake
permalink: 2002/12/i-am-awake
---


12/11/02 2:48:55 AM

I am awake. It is at any time that I may smile and forget. I am reminded of myself, the same map I still follow, and I wonder at the confusion I see around me. I have been so lucky, or wise somehow. Something that leads me knows many things. I have understood my surroundings, my tools, I have discovered myself. I write as I breathe, as I assemble small things together. Were these gifts, or victories? Why is it that I have such wealth of identity? I look at my life stretching out before me and I am unafraid. My decisions until now have been pure intuitions. Am I indeed en route to the musical utopia that I crave, or am I to serve some other peripheral cause? I have only the trust within, the casual blindness that I use to move quickly. I can only see what I choose - the steps that climb, the voices that sing and the depth of my hallucinations. The folds of beauty that fall from my fingers, which are learned habits that have disguised themselves as improvisational power.
So is this the scheme, the routes my muscles have traveled and the roads they have built? Do others find some shortcut of manufacturing, some assembly line that spits out blood? I am at times adorned with praise, but still I am no closer to this elevation. Maybe I am right to believe that true transcendence happens too quickly to notice. The edge of a precipice may seem all too level... I await this newness.
And this is how it happens, I am sure of it. I am every day closer to myself. I have torn down all the barriers to my own realization; there is nothing that stands before my own ritual and me.
So I build this thing - with care and wisdom, as I would have it. With the often supported truth that there is no way to share this vision. All that can be respected in this impatient world is the verdict, as faith has been supplanted by priority. All things must fall now between initiatives, as if good must be grown instead of nourished. As if beauty needs to be seen in order to be recognized.
And I don't believe that, in my heart. I am still clutching the fact that beauty IS. It does not mock itself for spectators, and it does not serve anything. Why should I direct my own impulses towards some ethereal target? Value is often assigned in retrospect, and all that I have now is preference. I prefer to follow my own leaders.

I prefer to believe in myself, not because I should but because I was born to.

This will be a triumph.
