---
layout: blog
title: things that make you go - what?
permalink: 2008/10/things-that-make-you-go-what
postday: 10/04 2008
posttime: 06_12
categories: [Historical]
---

<p>January 2008: Countrywide Financial bank collapses (assets US$ 172 billion)</p>
<p>March 2008: Investment bank Bear Stearns (assets for $399 billion) collapses and is acquired by JPMorgan Chase through a FED-funded credit for $ 30 billion.&lt;!--break--> On March 7, the FED offers up to $ 200 billion in 28-day loans to banks and large financial institutions. On March 11, the FED offers investment banks up to $200 billion in Treasury Securities in exchange for mortgage-backed securities. On March 21st, the European Central Bank offered up to $ 24 billion in loans to help banks shore up balance sheets. The Bank of England in turn offers up to $ 10 billion in loans.</p>
<p>April 2008: Commercial bank IndyMac Bancorp collapses (assets for $32.3 billion). German bank Düsseldorfer Hypotheken Bank (assets for $ 42.5 billion) collapses. July 2008: UK bank Alliance &amp; Leicester (assets for $153.40 billion) collapses. Danish bank Roskilde Bank (assets for $ 7.9 billion) collapses.</p>
<p>7 September 2008: The US's two largest mortgage agencies - Freddie Mac (assetsts for $ 879 billion) and Fannie Mae (assets for $ 885.9 billion) are taken over by the FED, at a direct cost of $ 200 billion, and the US Government now owns their $ 5.4 trillion combined debt</p>
<p>15 September 2008: The US's fourth largest investment bank, Lehman Brothers (assets for $ 966.2 billion) collapses. At the same time, investment bank Merrill Lynch (assets for $ 639.4 billion) is bailed out by Bank of America at a cost of $ 50 billion (unofficially funded by the FED, considering Bank of America did not have funds for such an acquisition)</p>
<p>16 September 2008: The central banks of the US, European Union UK, Japan, Switzerland and Canada set up a $ 180 billion emergency currency swap fund</p>
<p>17 September 2008: The largest insurance company in the US and the world, American International Group (AIG) (assets for $ 1.050 trillion), is nationalized 80% by the FED at a cost of $ 85 billion. The decision to salvage this insurance company (a decision that should have been taken by State insurance commissioners, not the FED) lies in the fact that it would have dragged down key banks like Goldman Sachs. This explains why Goldman's CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein, was the only Wall Street banker invited to participate in the last minute bail-out talks by FED governor Bernard B. Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson. Notably, before becoming George W Bush's Treasury Secretary in June 2006, Paulson was CEO of Goldman Sachs, at which time he was replaced by Blankfein.</p>
<p>19 September 2008: Henry Paulson, Bernard Shalom Bernanke and Christopher Cox (chairman of the Securities &amp; Exchange Commission - SEC) submitted to Congress an urgent 3-page Bail-out Plan (similar in style to Argentina's "financial armouring" of December 2000 which paved the way for 2001's total financial meltdown), to the tune of $ 700 billion which is supposed to stop further banking and financial failures in the US and worldwide. The urgency of the matter could be read in their panicky faces and the bill crashed in the House of Representative which rejected it on 22-Sept-08. It has since then grown to a 450-page dossier, now approved by the Senate and being resubmitted to the House.</p>
<p>Paulson and Bernanke seek "superpowers" from Congress, similar to the ones that former economy minister Domingo Cavallo wrenched from Argentina's Congress in 2001, which led to total collapse. In various declarations, president George W Bush stressed time and again the dire situation of this "national emergency". When asked how the amount of $ 700 billion was arrived at, Bernanke replied that it represents 5% (!!!) of mortgages that have become non-performing. Independent analysts, however, reckon that this 5% is insufficient to cover all bail-outs and that we need to look at 10, 15 or 20 percent of non-performing mortgages, which would turn bail-out figures into unfathomable amounts. Rejection of the bail-out plan on "Bloody Monday" led to a collapse of the Dow Jones Industrial Index by 778 points (more than 7%) and a 16% fall for financial institutions. Not surprisingly, in their 21st September edition the London newspaper "The Daily Telegraph" pointed out that we may be edging towards a US Government default on its entire $ 13.5 trillion debt.</p>
<p>The two remaining investment banks still considered to be "healthy" - i.e., prestigious Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley - decided to voluntarily become commercial banks, and thus accept greater regulatory scrutiny. Meanwhile and as a transitory emergency measure, financier Warren Buffet took a $ 5 billion stake in Goldman Sachs to help it become "more healthy", a clear indication of just how critical the situation is.</p>
<p>22 September 2008: After a strange period of silence regarding its situation as a major bank, CitiGroup finally appeared on the scene helping to engineer two bank bail-outs: Washington Mutual Savings &amp; Loan (the largest thrift in the US with assets for $ 309.7 billion), and Wachovia Bank (assets for $ 812.4 billion), although Wachovia is having second thoughts and may strike a deal with Wells Fargo.</p>
<p>September 22nd to 30th: The contagion crosses the Atlantic sending Europe into a crisis with a series of domino-like bank collapses:</p>
<p>Fortis (France-Belgium banking and insurance consortium with assets of $ 1.533 billion) is bailed out by the governments of Belgium, The Netherlands and Luxembourg Bradford &amp; Bigley, major UK Savings &amp; Loans association is rescued by the Spanish Santander Group at a cost of $ 30 billion, assets: $ 104 billion, Hypo Real Estate AG, a German bank bailed out by the government at a cost of $ 50 billion - with assets for $ 622.2 billion, Dexia - another Franco-Belgian bank rescued by their respective governments - Price tag: $ 9.2 billion - assets $ 913 billion, Glitnir (a major Icelandic bank nationalized 75% by the government at a cost of $ 900 billion; assets for $ 48.9 billion). Clearly, these amounts are truly staggering as in their aggregate they are greater than the United States' Gross Domestic Product, which gives a taste of things to come, considering that rumors of further banks failures on both sides of the Atlantic still continue: UniCredit, a pan-European bank based in Italy, which owns the German HypoVereinsbank and the Bank Austria.</p>
<p>UBS based in Zurich, Switzerland, and National City Corporation, Downey Financial Corporation and Sovereign Bancorp, of the United States - all these and more have high risk exposures to "toxic" mortgage securities, to use the charming term coined by Bernanke from the FED... Lastly, major press media and international analysts insist that the bill for these bail-outs will fall on "US Taxpayers" through future tax hikes. This is clearly only a half-truth. The full truth is that, as far as the US is concerned, the bulk of these bail-outs will be paid with even more uncontrolled monetary emission by the FED, which will further erode the value of the Dollar. In short, the cost for this disaster will be paid by companies, governments and individuals who have US-Dollar denominated assets throughout the world, and not just by the "American Taxpayers".<br /><a href="http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article20939.htm">more info</a></p>
