---
layout: blog
title: git ftw
permalink: 2009/02/git-ftw
postday: 02/19 2009
posttime: 23_00
categories: [code]
---

<p>copied from:<br />
			<a href="http://www.simplisticcomplexity.com/2008/03/05/cleanly-migrate-your-subversion-repository-to-a-git-repository/" rel="bookmark" title="Permanent Link to Cleanly Migrate Your Subversion Repository To a GIT Repository">Cleanly Migrate Your Subversion Repository To a GIT Repository</a></p>
<p>The first thing we need to do is create a <em>users</em> file that maps all your SVN users to your GIT users. Just make a file on your Desktop named &#039;users.txt&#039;. Map the users using this format:</p>
<p>jmaddox = Jon Maddox<br />
bigpappa = Brian Biggs </p>
<p>Simple. Now here are the commands you&#039;ll run. I&#039;ll explain them below.</p>
<p>mkdir my_blog_tmp<br />
cd my_blog_tmp<br />
git-svn init <a href="http://code.yoursite.net/my_blog/trunk/">http://code.yoursite.net/my_blog/trunk/</a> --no-metadata<br />
git config svn.authorsfile ~/Desktop/users.txt<br />
git-svn fetch</p>
<p>The first two are self explanatory, we&#039;re making a new directory for the temporary repository. The second command initializes the directory as a git-svn hybrid thing and points the origin at your SVN repository. The flag, --no-metadata, tells GIT to leave all the SVN details behind (not the commit log). The fourth command tells GIT to remap all the SVN users to GIT users when it sucks down the source and history. The last command actually does the fetching.</p>
<p>Ok, so now after a few LONG minutes, your source is all there. Do a git log to see that your users have been mapped. Sweet!</p>
<p>Now you just have one last step. You need to clone this repository. Why do we do this? When doing a normal git clone it will take everything we want from the temporary repository, while leaving behind all the SVN cruft that was there to support the git-svn stuff.</p>
<p>git clone my_blog_tmp my_blog</p>
