---
layout: blog
title: comment response from Matt Taibbi article
permalink: 2009/05/comment-response-from-matt-taibbi-article
postday: 05/12 2009
posttime: 21_47
categories: [Historical]
---

<p>quote from the article:</p>
<p>It's the same thing with this torture business. There are a lot of people in this country who genuinely believe that torture opponents are “not upset” about things like 9/11 or the beheading of American hostages. The idea that “no one complains when Americans are murdered” is crazy — of course we “complained,” and of course we'd all like to round up those machete-wielding monsters and shoot them into space — but these people really believe this, they really believe that torture opponents are secretly unimpressed/untroubled by Islamic terrorism, at least as compared to American “enhanced interrogation.” For them to believe that, they must really believe that such people are traitors, nursing a secret agenda (an agenda perhaps unknown even to themselves, their America-hatred being ingrained so deep) against their own country. Which is really an amazing thing for large numbers of Americans to believe about another large group of Americans, when you think about it.<br />
&lt;!--break--><br />
and the comment by 'kaote':</p>
<p>You're absolutely right, they do "believe" thinking, genuinely principled Americans are traitors. It's also interesting to note that these torture zealots are also the people that obsess the most about so-called "values" which seem to be arbitrarily selected from the most irrelevant, none-of-your-business aspects of morality they can find (most of them sexual, which says something about these people as well).</p>
<p>The scarequotes around believe, though, are necessary, because we Americans who are capable of thought have a different notion of what that word actually entails. When we believe something, it's the direct result of having gathered the facts, applied logic and reason to them, and come to a defensible conclusion. Their beliefs are entirely different animals that, as you note, seem to bubble up from their unconscious and then grasp wildly for some sort of explanation that pitifully mocks logic, which makes you wonder which came first, religion or the swarms of retarded non-thinkers.</p>
<p>The paranoia and fear-based conspiratorialism they apply to everything political (and often refer to as "The Culture Wars") appeals to their macho, us vs. them gut response, and the gut is where we should do all of our thinking, just ask Glenn Beck. They're so used to "thinking" this way and being agreed with by their backwater compatriots that they've never really considered that they could be wrong, hence their rage when some intellectual asshole comes along and effortlessly dismisses them with high-falutin' rational thinking.</p>
<p>This is how we get stuck in "debates" about non-issues that often break out along geographical lines, with the least educated, most gut-checking types almost always to the right of the issue. We, the thinking, let them push us into debates about things that are so obvious you wouldn't think we needed to discuss them at all, like the fact that creationism has nothing to do with science. These are factual matters, and even though we're talking about morality in this case, you would think that just pushing them to be consistent would be enough to reach agreement. They don't even realize that they're undermining their own notion of morality, which is usually seen to be deontological, not consequentialist like Krauthammer's. You can't believe people to be inherently evil while also holding the belief that your actions can be defended based on the results. I know, I know, way beyond anything they want to consider...</p>
<p>But they're not really interested in being logical or consistent. Quite frankly, they don't know how to be. They're interested in being "right", whether by force of argument or repetition.</p>
<p>I should add (and I'm quite sure the reader is aware) that the "liberals" do this shit, too. There, fair and balanced.</p>
<p>story linked here - <a href="http://www.smirkingchimp.com/thread/21748" title="http://www.smirkingchimp.com/thread/21748">http://www.smirkingchimp.com/thread/21748</a></p>
