---
layout: blog
title: WGU entrance essay
permalink: 2012/04/wgu-entrance-essay
categories: [Random]
---

I'm going for another Bachelor's, this time a BS of Information Technology with an emphasis on databases. As part of a much larger initial assessment, I wrote this essay. The question was very broad - 'write about a challenge you have faced in your life and how you overcame it'.

<blockquote>In answering this question, I think it is appropriate to talk about how I got started in the world of tech. Although I have had many challenges in my life, the one that seems most relevant in this context is the broad challenge I faced in moving from being a VBA developer in the late 90s to being the Ruby developer that I am now.
When I graduated from college in 1997, I knew in my heart that I was going to need a career. I led a very successful rock band in Madison in those days, and it was tempting to just continue on that path, and live on the road and out of a suitcase for the rest of my life. The first challenge I faced was deciding what it was that I really wanted. I had had many changes of residence throughout my childhood and I finally understood then that what I needed was stability. I needed to grow roots. I decided to follow the girl I loved to Los Angeles and make a career there. We packed up a U-Haul with furniture, clothes, and a dog and off we went.
The subsequent challenge I faced, aside from the general stranger-in-a-strange-land issues that are so common, was to find a viable career. I had a very short-lived run as an associate salesman at a music store on Santa Monica boulevard. That was not for me. I needed something artistic. I finally ended up as a temp in a very small employment office with only two other people, both headhunters. I was the only person with a technical mind, and it soon became necessary for me to set up the payroll system. By that I mean one day UPS showed up with a few boxes. A Unix system and a printer. It fell to me to understand the OS, hook up the monitor, connect the printer, data-enter all of the relevant information and start printing checks within a few days. My career path was born.
The subsequent years would see me move from position to position, learning a little bit about everything. I learned how deep of a language SQL can be from a woman named Livia who was a geologist by trade and worked at FOX; I cut my teeth spec-writing for Toyota.  One interview that stands out in my memory was for TBG, where although I know next to nothing about Oracle databases I bought a large technical book the night before the interview and crammed for it like I was back in college. There were 3 questions on that entrance exam, and one of them had to do with indexes and clustering which I had just read about. If I had not spent the night before studying, I might not have been hired and I would probably still be a temp somewhere.
There were many challenges I faced as part of the broader endeavor to find a career path for myself as a young professional. One was finding personal clarity about what I wanted out of life. Another was using circumstance to my benefit  and having the patience to build up my resume one temp position at a time. Finally, it never hurts to study up. I often think of a popular saying when I think about those years: 'fortune favors the bold'. In my case, it was more like 'fortune favors the prepared'.</blockquote>

